[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In 2009, NASA launched
the Kepler Mission satellite.
The reason given
for the mission was
to search for and
discover new planets.
Kepler did this by
pointing its telescope
at a certain area in space
looking for planetary transits.
A planetary transit is when
a planet passes in front
of the star in its orbit.
As it transits, the planet
can be seen, measured,
and understood.
In 2011, citizen scientists who
were looking at the Kepler data
noticed something strange.
A star in the
Cygnus constellation
was having a transit with
an asymmetrical object that
was at least a thousand
times larger than the Earth.
Astronomer Tabitha Boyajian
became involved and confirmed
that the data was correct.
The star, now
dubbed Tabby's Star,
did Indeed have a huge
object orbiting it.
>> And so it was on, the classic
human versus machine gamble.
And if we found one planet,
we would be thrilled.
When I joined the
team four years ago,
we had already found a couple.
And today, with the help of over
300,000 science enthusiasts,
we have found dozens.
And we've also found one of
the most mysterious stars
in our galaxy.
So to understand
this, let me show you
what a normal transit in
Kepler data looks like.
On this graph, on
the left-hand side,
you have the amount of light,
and on the bottom is time.
The white line is the light
just from the star, what
astronomers call a light curve.
Now, when a planet
transits a star,
it blocks out a
little bit this light,
and the depth of this transit
reflects the size of the object
itself.
And so, for example,
let's take Jupiter.
Planets don't get much
bigger than Jupiter.
Jupiter will make a 1% drop
in a star's brightness.
Earth, on the other hand, is
11 times smaller than Jupiter,
and its signal is barely
visible in the data.
So back to our mystery.
A few years ago,
planet hunters were
sifting through data
looking for transits,
and they spotted a mysterious
signal coming from the star KIC
8462852.
The observations in May of 2009
were the first they spotted,
and they started talking about
this in the discussion forums.
They said an object
like Jupiter would
make a drop like this
in the star's light,
but they're also
saying it was giant.
You see, transits normally
only last for a few hours,
and this one lasted
for almost a week.
They were also saying
that it looks asymmetric,
meaning that instead of the
clean, U-shaped dip that we saw
with Jupiter, it had this
strange slope that you
can see on the left side.
This seemed to indicate that
whatever is getting in the way
and blocking the star light
was not circular like a planet.
There are a few more
dips that happened,
but for a couple of years
it was pretty quiet.
And then, in March
of 2011, we see this.
The star's light
drops by a whole 15%.
And this is huge compared
to a planet which
would only make a 1% drop.
We described this feature
as both smooth and clean.
It also is asymmetric,
having a gradual dimming that
lasts almost a week, and then
it snaps right back up to normal
in just a matter of days.
And, again, after this, not much
happens until February of 2013.
Things start to
get really crazy.
There is a huge complex of dips
in the light curve that appear,
and they last for
a hundred days,
all the way up into the
Kepler Mission's end.
These dips have variable shapes.
Some are very sharp
and some are broad,
and they also have
variable durations.
Some last just for a day or two
and some for more than a week.
And there is also
up and down trends
within some of
these dips, almost
like several independent
events were superimposed
on top of each other.
And at this time, this star
drops in its brightness
over 20%.
>> Author and researcher Andrew
Collins has been interested
in the mythology surrounding the
constellation Cygnus for many
years.
>> Cygnus is the constellation
of the swan or celestial bird.
It's also known as
the Northern Cross.
It's a series of stars
in the shape of a cross.
In Christian tradition it
was the cross of Calvary,
and it's very
prominent in the skies,
particularly in the summer.
Indeed, its brightest
star Deneb forms
part of what's known
as the Summer Triangle
with two other stars
which are Vega and Altair.
And for the ancients it would
seem that this area of the sky
was very, very important,
initially because it's
placed on the Milky Way,
the edge of our own galaxy
which is this huge starry
stream that crosses from one
side of the sky to the other,
that was always seen as a path
or road on which the
souls of the dead
could enter the afterlife.
And they would make a leap
of faith onto the Milky Way
at a certain point, and
that point generally
was associated with the
constellation of Orion,
obviously another
very important star
group in ancient traditions.
However, it would then
carry on its journey
until it reached the point
where the Milky Way bifurcated
or broke into two
separate streams.
And these two
separate streams were
seen as a bridge, a bridge
with two possibilities.
One, if the soul
was bad, they would
go into oblivion or
possibly reincarnation.
If the soul had been
good, was righteous,
it would continue
along the other stream
and enter into the afterlife.
And therefore, the
stars of Cygnus
that corresponded to the
position of this bifurcation
of the Milky Way
became associated
with the entry of the
soul into the next world.
And adding to all of this is
the fact that around 15,000
BC, the stars of Cygnus, for
a period of around that time
of around 3,000 years,
was the so-called turning
point of the heavens,
the place that's
occupied today by
Polaris, the pole star.
Although, at that time, it was
the bright star Deneb in Cygnus
that was the pole star.
And ancient shamanic
tradition has
seen this position,
which is correctly
known as the Northern Celestial
Pole, as the point of exit
from the physical world and
the entry into they sky world.
So all of those ideas came
together in Palaeolithic time.
And it's for this
reason that in cave art
across southwest
Europe, particularly
in the Lascaux Cave in the
Dordogne region of France,
you see images that are
clearly of the night sky.
Archaeoastronomers
have written about this
and they said it's focusing
on the Northern heavens
and the Cygnus
constellation in particular,
and it's usually represented
as a bird, a bird on a pole
or a bird man or
something like that.
And it would seem as
if the association
of that constellation with
a bird is extremely ancient
and goes back to
Palaeolithic times.
And why a bird?
Because a bird was
seen to carry the soul
from this world to the
next and to bring souls
into incarnation.
Well, we all know the story
about the stork bringing babies
into the world, a popular
European folk tradition.
However, it's a fact that in
several countries of Europe,
and I suspect probably
more in the past,
it was the swan that brought
babies into the world.
But, of course, we're not
talking about real babies
here because quite
clearly they grow
inside the womb of a mother.
We're talking about bringing
the souls of newborn children
into this world,
and somehow that's
become distorted across time.
So you've got the idea
of these soul birds,
a swan in Europe and Asia.
In other parts of the
world, different birds.
For instance, in North
America, the same tradition
was associated with raptor
birds, like hawks and eagles.
In the Near East and Tur--
what is today Turkey,
it was the vulture.
Why a vulture?
Because a vulture was associated
with the act of sky burial,
which is also known
as excarnation.
This is the idea that the bodies
of the dead were placed out,
generally on a wooden platform,
and vultures would come down
and peck the bodies
clean of their flesh
leaving behind the
bones which would then
be collected up
and either interred
or the skull occasionally
used for oracular
purposes, communication
with the ancestors.
And because of that,
the vulture became
associated with the
idea of carrying
the soul from this
world to the next,
and again, bringing
it into this world.
This is shown not only at
places like Gobekli Tepe,
the largest and most
important stone temple
complex in the world
based about 9500 BC,
and that's in southeast
Turkey, but also
at many other sites in this
region, like Catalhoyuk.
This is this town or urban
center of the Neolithic
going back to about 7000 BC
in southern central Turkey.
Here you see images on
the walls of vultures
that are swooping down
and seem to be picking
clean the bodies of
the dead, but also you
see the vultures having
human fetuses in their back.
They're bringing
souls into the world.
And some you see a head, just
a head, in the shape of a ball
with just a couple
of eyes and a mouth,
being taken under
the wings of vultures
as if they're
protecting this, which
is the symbol of the soul,
the skull or the head
became the symbol of the soul.
And this particular
image, the idea
of the vultures taking
the head into their care,
is like them taking the
soul into their possession
and then taking it
and accompanying it
to the sky world.
The sky world was
almost certainly
in the vicinity of the
Cygnus constellation.
And it's interesting
that in the Near East
and in neighboring Armenia,
the symbol for Cygnus
is the vulture.
And even in Egypt we find
the symbol of the soul
was also a bird.
The higher aspect of the soul,
which is known as the akh,
was represented
by the Ibis bird.
The ba, which is another
part of the soul,
was represented by the hawk.
And we can see there these
same traditions which
we find elsewhere in the world,
not just in Europe and in Asia
but also in North
American tradition,
and even in the Pacific, Cygnus
was a bird of paradise that
was associated with
creation and bringing life
into the world on very
specific islands, like Hawaii,
for instance.
So we can say that
we might understand
why Cygnus was important
to the ancient mindset.
It's prominently placed on
the Milky Way, which was
a road or river to the stars.
Cygnus itself was
once the turning point
of the heavens going back
to Palaeolithic times.
And obviously even
the shape, which
is a beautiful cross, which
around November each year
stands up on the horizon and
is probably one of the reasons
why it was adopted in
Christian tradition
as the symbol of Christ
and resurrection.
But there's far more to Cygnus.
Because, is it possible that
the ancients knew something
about Cygnus which
perhaps we are only
beginning to understand
today for the first time?
For instance, between
2011 and 2013,
the Kepler space telescope in
the constellation of Cygnus
noticed--
and I say noticed
within the data that
was being sent back to Earth--
one particular star that was
doing something very peculiar
indeed.
Periodically, its light
was dipping by as much as,
on one occasion 17%, on
another occasion 22%.
And the astronomers, when they
saw this and realized this,
they couldn't
understand it at all.
It was a complete mystery
because stars don't usually
do this.
Very young stars will
do this if they've
got a lot of what they call
planetary material just flowing
around, orbiting
around the star,
gradually coalescing to become
planets like our own, Earth.
But this is not a young star.
This is a main sequence star,
very much like our own Sun,
just slightly larger, I think.
And yet, it was doing
these strange dips.
And it seemed to have a
certain regularity about it.
There were certain
cycles, periodicities
as they call them, which suggest
that there's something very,
very strange in the
orbit around the star,
but nothing, no model that could
be put forward at this time
explains it.
And this star is
called KIC 8462852.
But you don't have to
worry about remembering
that because it's also known
as Tabby's Star or Boyajian's
Star.
Now, that's after the
astronomer, the first,
discovered and wrote about
it, who's Tabitha Boyajian.
She's of Yale university.
And she wrote a paper that
came out in 2015 suggesting
that it was a swarm of
comments, and she admits openly
that this was her best option,
that there was nothing else
around at the time that could
even possibly try and explain
this.
But then, one of her colleagues,
Jason Wright of Penn State,
suggested that these dips
were exactly what we've
been looking for to
possibly provide evidence
of an alien civilization.
Because, back in
1960, a physicist
by the name of Freeman Dyson
had a thought experiment,
as he called it.
And this was the fact that
when civilizations grow,
eventually they will
expend all of the energy
and resources of
their own planet,
so they will look elsewhere
to get the energy to power
their spaceships, computers,
whatever else they've got,
houses, electricity.
And they'll look towards
either their own star
or a neighboring star,
and they will then
build what might be
described as a megastructure
to harness this energy, like
an almighty solar panel,
to draw this energy, store
it, and then somehow radiate
that back to their home planet.
And he hypothesized
that you could even
encircle the star with some
kind of construction, which came
to be known as a Dyson Sphere.
And over the years this
idea was developed.
People said, well, maybe
this model doesn't work.
What about if they were
swarms or arrays or series
of different smaller
objects in orbit?
And the latest idea
is a Dyson Ring,
like a ring of objects that
are drawing this energy off.
Is that what was going
on around Tabby's Star?
This is what was suggested,
and that suggestion
created an incredible response
in the international media.
>> Possibility of an
extraterrestrial civilization.
Why haven't they
made contact with us?
>> Not just within the science
media but amongst the general
public as well.
And this story has run and run.
And although there have been
various counter-theories,
the proposed natural
explanations like,
oh, it's just a star that's
eaten a planet and burping
and it takes a long
while, this just
doesn't seem to
fit the evidence.
And although it might help
the skeptics to sleep better
at night, everybody
else is still thinking,
no, it could be an
alien megastructure.
And then, finally,
the astronomers
have announced that
it's doing it again.
It's happening again.
The light of the star is
dipping dramatically once more
and has been over
the last few days.
And the astronomers
involved have called out
to the telescopes, large
and small around the world,
to look at this star on
every frequency, everything
from visual observation
to light spectra,
to the different
colors that would
come from it, to infrared,
ultraviolet, X-ray, radios.
The SETI telescopes at Green
Bank are looking at it now.
They're even trying to get the
Hubble Space Telescope to turn
to look at the star at
this very, very moment,
virtually as I speak.
It's an extremely exciting
thing that's going on.
This is the first time something
like this has happened,
and that all eyes are
focused not just on a star
but a star that could well have
an alien megastructure built
by an extraterrestrial
civilization.
And all eyes are
on this spot now.
And that's the way
that it stands,
but we can go beyond this.
Because, firstly, an engineer
that I've been working with,
Rodney Hale, has used the raw
data from Kepler from 2011
through to 2013 to
physically model
the objects or objects involved,
and it looks very strange.
It's an ellipse with this
very long, he calls them wings
but you might call
it tails going out
that precede it and follow it.
And this looks unlike anything
that you've seen before.
It's incredibly peculiar.
It's certainly not a comet.
It's certainly not a planet.
It's certainly not round.
A round object, like
a planet, would not
create this type of what
they call a light curve
within the light flux.
So there's something really
odd going on, that's point one.
But secondly is that there are
certain periodicities or cycles
involved in the
data, and these could
seem to be like orbits
of the star or orbits
or something else
that's going around it.
One, for instance,
is 0.88 of a day,
in other words, nearly a day.
Another is 48 days.
And there are half cycle
echoes of both of these.
Now, if you start
looking at them,
they generate specific
numbers, and these numbers
are associated not only
to do with the Golden
Angle and the Fibonacci
Sequence but also a very
complex and incredible
mathematical formula known
as Pascal's Triangle, which
is used to solve problems
of probability.
It could be used very simply
to create the entire Fibonacci
Sequence.
And it's first number,
it's like a pyramid.
The first number is 11.
The second number is
121, which is 11 squared.
The third number is
1331, which is 11 cubed.
And it all relates to 11
and the key number also
121 because 121 is
the correspondence
between the cycles of Tabby's
Star and the own rotation
of the Earth.
In other words, every
121 days, the Earth
synchronizes perfectly with the
periodicities of Tabby's Star.
And what this means
is that if there
is one number that you could
say connects us with this star,
it's 121.
It's a mathematical number.
It's very important,
but there's more.
Because the Great Pyramid,
the iconic monument
of the ancient world,
the construction
seems to be focused around
not just multiples of 11,
but if one number
comes out of this,
and my good friend and
colleague Robert Bauval
is talking about this in
his lectures, it's 121.
Rudolf Gantenbrink,
the German engineer
that sent the robots
up inside the air
shafts of the Great
Pyramid, he also
has realized this, and
many other people as well.
It gives us an opportunity
to actually use
this new knowledge, this
quantum understanding,
to perhaps make this direct
link with a nonterrestrial
intelligence and
to get a response.
I mean, what better opportunity
now, when half the world's
telescopes are focused on one
star, one star that's already
seen to be associated with an
extraterrestrial civilization,
to actually say, look,
whilst all these telescopes
are focused on you,
please do something.
Appear, make pretty
colors, let off fireworks,
do something that these
telescopes are going to be able
to see and record and come
back with the answer that, no,
we cannot explain
this whatsoever.
Something incredibly
weird is going on.
And the other
strange coincidence,
if coincidence is the word, is
that within the southern shaft
of the Queen's Chamber inside
the Great Pyramid, that
was explored
initially in the 1990s
by German engineer
Rudolf Gantenbrink
but subsequently by other
teams that investigated
these strange little doors or
panels they've come across,
60-odd meters inside
the pyramid itself,
they penetrated using a
drill on a little tiny robot
and put a camera through to
look at what's beyond this door,
and they found hieroglyphs,
or in fact they're
hieratics, which is a sort of
rough form of Egyptian writing.
And people looked at them
and said, oh, they're
just Mason marks.
Obviously some work gang
has put their mark on it.
But somebody has actually
shown, very cleverly,
that this is actually
the number 121 written
in a strange confirmation of
the number 121 being important.
That is the number of
the Great Pyramid, 121.
And you think, well, hold on.
How can you possibly
link some star
that's generating light
dips in 2011, 2013, 2017
with something that
was built in 2600 BC?
And, of course,
this is where it all
starts getting very,
very interesting
because Tabby's Star is 1300
light years away from here.
That's not only a long
way, but what it means
is that any messages that
you wanted to send there
would take 1300
years to be received.
So in other words,
even if we did
confirm that an alien
intelligence was behind this,
how would we respond to it?
Because if we sent
back a message
through whatever means and
said, we got your message,
the numbers 121.
Yep, we got that.
And you send it to
them, they're not
going to receive
it for 1,300 years.
And if they then
receive that and say,
oh, there's this place
called Earth down there
that's received our signal.
We'll send them a message.
It's going to take
another 1,300 years.
So that means round cycle is a
communication for 2,600 years.
Now, you would have thought
that the universe as a whole
would have worked in a
better way of communication
between two different species in
different parts of the galaxy.
And, of course, it has.
It's what we call
quantum entanglement.
Quantum entanglement is the
idea that every particle
splits in two and these
separate and go their own ways.
Why it does this,
I have no idea.
But what we know is
that if you tweak
one of those twin
particles, the other one
will respond in an equal
and opposite direction.
So how does this help us?
Well, there are trillions
and trillions and trillions
of particles doing everything
around us, dancing to create us
and everything around
us all the time.
They make up the
universe, of course.
And, therefore, if
they are dancing
in sequences, in systems,
in patterns, at least some
of those twins will be
doing the same thing
elsewhere, i.e. within the mind
of somebody else around you,
within trees, within animals,
within aliens on other planets.
Distance means nothing
on a quantum level.
The physicists have
done experiments
to try and show that this
connection between particles
exists the further out you go,
and I think, at the moment,
they've got it up to something
like 20 kilometers from two
different islands, I think
they're in the Canaries,
and it still works.
And it's clear the mathematical
theory behind this is correct.
So these ideas are almost
like sound resonance.
The idea that an
aircraft passing over
is going to rattle the
pane of your window
because it resonates at
exactly the same frequency.
So when we think of
this, this therefore
starts to bring us into ideas
of telepathy, of remote viewing,
between two different people
or two different places.
All of these ideas
suddenly become possible.
But not just that,
but consciousness
is involved with this.
Because in the experiments,
on a subatomic level,
if you observe a particle,
which before observation can
be either in the state
of a wave or a particle
that does its own thing,
makes its own choices,
as soon as we observe
that particle or wave,
it immediately collapses into
a particle and remains as such.
It fixes it to our
physical reality.
In other words, consciousness
through observation
affects the subatomic
world and in many ways
probably even creates
physical reality.
Through this, consciousness
creates reality.
It's almost like a very
subtle form of psychokinesis,
if you like, the idea of
being able to move an object.
But here we're not
moving an object,
we're just observing
a subatomic particle
and causing it to collapse.
So how does this help
us with communication
with Tabby's Star?
Well, what it suggests
is that communication
is possible instantaneously.
That's the other
important point here
is that the connection between
these twin particles that
remains is instantaneous
and nonlocal.
What that means is that there's
nothing between them when
that communication
takes place, nothing.
If there was, it would be
called a local connection,
but it's not.
There's nothing to connect
them, so it becomes nonlocal,
and nonlocality is
something that actually
worried Einstein a lot.
He referred to it as
spooky action at a distance
and said that God doesn't play
dice with the universe, which
is interesting because
it sort of troubled him
that these ideas may well
affect his own equations.
They didn't at
all because he was
talking about the physical
universe as a whole.
All of this is on the
quantum or subatomic level,
and that's outside of time.
That's the other
important point here.
And because it's
outside of time,
if we were to send a message
to aliens at Tabby's Star,
yes, they would be able to send
back an instantaneous response
on a subatomic level,
in other words,
as a message that
may enter our minds.
But at that point,
they could also
send a message either directly
or inadvertently to the past.
They could affect the
mind of the architect
of the Great Pyramid
to incorporate
the number 121 and
other key numbers
to do with phi and pi
and Fibonacci, whatever,
into the Great Pyramid.
It's possible through
quantum entanglement.
And as my colleague Robert
Bauval has been saying,
he is coming to the conclusion,
working with an astronomer
by the name of Chandra
Whitman Singh who
has looked at the idea
of directed panspermia,
the idea that life
on Earth was seeded
at some very early
point, perhaps
from comets or
something like that,
that the Great Pyramid,
the design of it,
could have been inspired
by a nonterrestrial source.
And I also am coming
to the same conclusion.
And because of this, I
think that this association,
this connection with
Tabby's Star at the moment
is incredibly important.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our ancient connection to the
constellation of Cygnus is only
now beginning to be understood
by researchers like Andrew
Collins.
As more astronomers
turn their telescopes
to examine Tabby's
Star, perhaps we'll
discover what exactly
is orbiting that star.
Perhaps one day we'll
come to understand
the strange and odd
connection between Cygnus
and the people of the past.
In our next episode,
we'll look at the control
grid of our planet and how we
can break free of the matrix.